---
description: 'Author: Shaheer Siddiqui. Published Nov. 25, 2018'
---

# Blockchain: Security Issues and Challenges

There are plenty of people that don’t understand the full capabilities of blockchain. When talking about blockchain, many people believe that blockchain is a synonym for cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin. However, this is further from the truth. Blockchain should really be considered as a new platform.  While the greatest and most noticeable use of blockchain is within the financial industry, many have begun exploring the use of blockchain in other aspects. One use case that many have for blockchain is a security solution for data, given that blockchain is a decentralized ledger that cannot be modified. Some of the first industries that began adopting blockchain are supply chain, logistics and healthcare. This was due to one of the first people to see the potential of blockchain, the founder of Ethereum, Vitalik Buterin. As many of the supporters of blockchain and Bitcoin wanted to leave the technology as a ledger for transactions, Buterin saw that blockchain can be used for more than just financial transactions. As such in 2015, he launched Ethereum, which can record assets like loans and contracts. \(Marr, 2018\). Since then large companies like IBM and General Motors began considering how blockchain can be leveraged.

Many companies are considering using blockchain for sensitive data transmission and possibly storage. Bitcoin was the first distributed ledger technology that highlighted using cryptography to protect the data that is being transferred on its platform which is hashing encryption SHA-256. Along with the hashing encryption, each blockchain created to date has a unique hashing algorithm that is used to confirm blocks/transactions. Users can see three major benefits from using blockchain for data transmission/storage. The first benefit is the data is encrypted with hashing algorithms such as Ethash which is one of the most secure algorithms to date. Only the person who placed the file on the network can access the file, based on the development of the smart contract. The blockchain is also non-repudiable, making it impossible for a malicious user to change or manipulate transactions. The final benefit of the decentralized network is the decentralized network itself. With the inception of true decentralization, no direct personnel govern the ecosystem outside of the user base which act as nodes that maintain a ledger of transactions. If any part of the network goes down, the user can retrieve their data with no issues and all parties involved will update their records once they come back online automatically.

Although there are some great benefits to using blockchain, there are still many issues and challenges with this emerging technology. The first major issue we will see is scalability. A huge benefit of a centralized internal database is that you can retrieve millions of records with in the matter of seconds. Additionally, if you are inside of the network you no longer have to worry about decrypting the data. Currently with blockchain, it takes a considerable amount of time and money to get a single transaction recorded/processed. Each node has its own processing power. Each node then sends out their records to other nodes to compare with their own copy. The length each node takes to ensure its check and balance process is dependent on node. Only when defined number of nodes have confirmed a transaction, then will it send it back to the requester. Along with scalability, we see that storage can be an issue. Blockchain is still a relative new technology. Much of the functionality is being built and new versions of various blockchains are being produced to perform the functionality they need. However, those new versions are not used by many people. This means that the amount of storage is relatively small. Even if you have many users, your storage is shared with all other users using that blockchain. If you are a large company, storage becomes important as it is predicted that by 2020 each person will make about 1.7 megabytes of data per second \(DOMO, n.d.\).

The next consideration that blockchain users must take into consideration when sending sensitive data is transparency. By nature, blockchain creates an environment where all transactions are transparent. Sending sensitive data on a public ledger can be detrimental to a large organization or company. Many will say that this driving point for blockchain is the fact that it is trustless, which can reduce needs for central authority. This feature is a great for the financial sector. However, this can become problematic for other type of data. For example, what if medical records were stored on a blockchain. Doctors can send patients information about their health or last visit via a blockchain, this now means all their private medical data is in a public space. While this key information is still encrypted and the transactions are sent under a fake name, the main point is that there is a record of it and everyone can find it. Depending on who is involved in the blockchain, the doctor could be violating HIPPA laws. We can now take this even a step further with a supply chain management. As you can track the transactions between users in Bitcoin, you can also use that same principle for a supply chain. A consumer can track what is in their final product such as a car. They can see where the steering wheel came from, if the tires were made from the proper material or even where the car was assembled. As this can be an excellent feature to track down which cars are affected by a recall for a specific batch of seats, this can also expose company secrets such as supplier partnerships or parts that could be used in the next generations of cars. In addition, the fast food industry would also have full transparency. For example, competitors of KFC would now be able to see their ingredients for their secret blend of herbs and spices.

As we talked about sending data that a company owns, such as health care and inventory, blockchain can also be used for their consumers information. Recently the EU implemented a piece of legislation that would give EU consumers more control over their personal data collected by any companies. This legislation is called the General Data Protection Regulation or GDPR. With GDPR in place, all companies are obligated to getting consent from EU consumers for gathering data, transferring the data at the request of the EU citizen and erasing any data collected upon request. The transparency of blockchain allows EU citizen to see who is collecting their data, what data is collected and when. It also can provide proof that the data was not manipulated in any manner. However, blockchain will run into issues when it comes to the deletion aspect of the GDPR as data cannot be modified or deleted from a blockchain \(Martinet, 2018\). Where the data is being stored will come into question. Having the data decentralized will support the end goal of GDPR which is to protect the EU citizens’ data, but the GDPR requires that any data that is stored outside of the EU maintain the same level of protection as data stored inside of the EU.

In the end, blockchain has plenty of opportunity for growth and can be the disruptive technology that IT has been waiting for. Before blockchain can fully mature and be used for sensitive data, the community will need to develop a method to expand storage capabilities. Increase both the capacity and the performance will be key in future applications. Once that has been resolved, the next challenge will be how businesses work with the transparency of blockchain. While complete transparency can be beneficial, too much can expose many trade secrets and personal data that can be detrimental to society.

