# Findings

Before delving into the field of Open Educational Resources, it is imperative to comprehend what exactly this field entails; only then can we understand its impact and significance in this Advanced Web Development course and the value BookStack can bring to this project.

## **A Brief History of OER**

Open Educational Resources are growing rapidly. This field is filled with resources and information from a plethora of disciplines, ranging from English Literature to Science to Information Technology. The concept of a resource that can be shared and distributed to multiple users, as well as updated and modified at the creator’s discretion, is relatively new. According to researchers Paragarino, Silvers, and Llama-Nistal \(2018\), this movement toward OER is less than fifteen years old, sprouting from the idea that students, colleges and universities, and even nations all share publicly funded research, as it belongs to everyone, and as such it must be open and accessible to all \(section 1, para 2\).

Paragarino et al. \(2018\) go on to describe the beginnings of OER, initially called Learning Objects, a phrase coined by Wayne Hodgins \(section 2, para 4\). These Learning Objects were originally created to represent content designed for either teaching or learning. One of the most important aspects of Open Educational Resources, and its predecessor Learning Objects, is the ability to be reused, and said Learning Objects lacked this feature. Due to the concept of “zero freedom,” Learning Objects were unable to be modified or reused for a number of reasons, including a lack of access to the sources of the objects as well as the nature of the object’s applied license, or its lack thereof \(Paragarino et al., section 2, para 3\). These limitations paved the way for what is now known as Open Content, a title coined by David Wiley four years after the creation of Learning Objects \(Paragarino et al., section 2, para 4\). Open Content in turn birthed what is now known as Open Educational Resources.

As OER moves ever closer to the future, there still remain areas of improvements, as researchers Paragarino et al. \(2018\) assert in their conference notes \(section 4, para 1\), the first of which involves the capacity to find, reuse, create, and share OER, the core of the OER movement. Both the discovery of credible OER content and its reuse are major issues in this field, and they are crucial factors in the success of the OER initiative. The ability to share OER plays an important role, too, as more professors, instructors, teachers, and educational institutions as a whole need to be aware of the free and public research available at their fingertips. Paragarino et al. \(2018\) states, “Of the last large studies carried out, the survey on more than 2,700 members of the ‘Opening the Textbook’ faculty shows that the number of teachers who used OER as textbooks in the United States, has almost doubled in the last year, from 5 percent in 2015-16 to 9 percent in 2016-17” \(section 4, para 2\). However, knowledge of OER continues to be relatively low, despite its success in some educational settings.

 Language is also an area of improvement, as countries outside of the United States utilize OER and depend on its utility. In fact, instructors in less-developed countries tend to utilize OER far more than those in the United States, as it aids in the “pressing educational challenges due to lower economic development” \(Paragarino et al., section 4, para 3\). Additionally, the English bias must be taken into account: OER interfaces should be available in local languages in order to ensure inclusivity and equal access across all OER platforms, another area of improvement \(Paragarino et al., section 4, para 5\).

 Sustainability and the development of supportive policy environments are the last areas of improvement mentioned by Paragarino et al. \(2018\), and serve to highlight that financing, or a lack thereof, can in fact hinder the sustainability of an OER project, as they mainly survive on philanthropic donations \(section 4, para 8\). More funding is often needed to ensure these projects are able to rise from humble beginnings. Moreover, new policies governing this field must be created in order to support each area of improvement. As Paragarino et al. \(2018\) say, “…the future of OER faces the main challenge of designing new business models for the effective and sustainable implementations of OER policies and practices” \(section 4, para 9\). OER has come a long way, but it still has further to go, and with the help of instructors and professors, as well as financial security and new drafts of policies and guidelines, OER can be molded into a real and reputable alternative to the traditional textbook.

## **OER in the classroom**

The first initiatives of OER focused on the reusability and the potential to share content. Now, colleges and universities across the globe are slowly beginning to notice OER and take note of its impact in higher education. Research completed by Colvard, Watson, and Park \(2018\) emphasizes this point, as they highlight the main findings from the Association of American Colleges and Universities \(AAC&U\) survey of its one thousand four hundred member institutions in the year of 2017 \(p. 262\). This survey dove into the myriad of challenges facing both colleges and universities in the present day, and included issues found with retention and completion, the quality of student learning, the affordability of higher education as a whole, and the attainment gap, which they define as the rate at which different ethnicities are earning college degrees \(Colavrd et al., 2018, p. 262\). Their research found that open educational resources touch on each of these four issues.

 Affordability is the main concern in terms of tuition and the associated miscellaneous costs of receiving a college education. Textbooks have a hand in causing students financial strain, as their costs, coupled with that of tuition, continue to increase. As Colvard et al. \(2018\) assert, “Students find it challenging to budget for the cost of books because they typically don’t learn about the true scope of those expenses until the beginning of a semester” \(p. 263\). This unknown cost can pose a serious threat to student retention, as some students end up dropping courses due to this cost or continuing in the course without purchasing the text, hoping to get by without it to avoid the additional expense. This in turn has negative effects on their understanding of the course material, their grades, and their willingness to continue in that particular discipline \(Colvard et al., 2018, p. 263\).

 Money is a strong motivator, and because of the financial strain caused by inflated textbook prices, more universities and colleges are looking toward Open Educational Resources to help lift the weight of hefty book prices. Colvard et al. \(2018\) go on to define OER as “the open provision of educational resources, enabled by information and communication technologies, for consultation use, and adaptation by a community of users for non-commercial purposes” \(p. 263\). OERs have many positive features, most notably the fact that they are completely digital, which frees them from the restrictive copyright licensing of printed counterparts. This is turn allows them to be retained, reused, revised, and redistributed by the user.

OERs are of course more affordable, as they reduce of the cost of textbooks. This affordability supports all learners, but especially those at-risk learners with lower incomes. Not only are OERs more affordable, Colvard et al. \(2018\) research found that Open Educational Resources are perceived as being equal to or, in some instances, better than commercial textbooks when it comes to quality, with students utilizing OERs performing just as well as or better than those in courses using traditional textbooks \(p. 263\).

Colvard et al. \(2018\) endeavored to better understand students success and academic achievement in courses that employ OER, and they accomplished this by surveying the adoption of OER into certain lower level general education courses at the University of Georgia during the summer semester of 2013 \(p. 264\). The results were staggering, with an estimated 35, 985 students utilizing OERs, with said students collectively saving an estimated $3,266,930 due to this OER adoption \(Colvard et al., 2018, p. 264\).

It is no question that OER has a positive impact on students’ success, as well as their college affordability, which in turn addresses the issues of retention, completion, and the attainment gap. The challenge of affordability is also mitigated with the use of OER, as lower income and at risk students are not forced to worry about the overwhelming cost of a printed textbook. Now students of all backgrounds have the potential to be successful in any given course utilizing OER without feeling less-than or unprepared, as their course is furnished with digital knowledge that is easily accessible.

## **BookStack Explained**

Now that OER as a whole has been explained in greater detail in the previous sections, we are now able to take a closer look at BookStack. This application can be utilized in the creation of an Open Educational Resource, and as such is under consideration in the textbook replacement project of the Advanced Web Development course.

BookStack is a completely free and open-sourced digital resource that is easy to use for the purposes of organizing and storing information. It boasts an easy and simple interface with a What You See Is What You Get page editor, allowing users to break their content into three major groups: books, chapters, and pages \(“Features,” n.d.\). This digital platform mimics that of a traditional book, and this similarity could make the transition process from print to digital easier on students.

Not only is BookStack free, open-sourced, and simple to use, it is also completely searchable, giving users the ability to search at any book level and link to any paragraph within any given book. It is configurable in that creators can change anything from the name of the book, the logo, the way in which users register, and whether or not the book is public or private \(“Features,” n.d.\). BookStack is also built using PHP, a coding language, using MySQL to store data. Cross-book sorting is also available, and well as page revisions and image management. Moreover, BookStack is multilingual, giving creators of their BookStack application the ability to set a preferred language. A markdown editor is also an option, which allows creators to preview their work as they create their application, as well as integrated authentication, which allows users to log in with passwords previously established on multiple social providers such as GitHub, Google, Slack, and AzureAD \(“Features,” n.d.\). All in all, BookStack integrates many features that creators can potentially utilize to create a reliable Open Educational Resource for students.

