# Value

Conducting this research has provided immense value in both the final project for my group and my education as a whole. We were tasked with finding an alternative to our current textbook, as it was published ten years ago and its content is stagnant. Each team member chose an online application to research and provided an in-depth analysis of said application, listing their pros and cons. BookStack was my chosen platform and thus having researched the background of Open Educational Resources and the impact of OERs on students’ success compared to the features of BookStack, I am able to give my recommendation to my team concerning its value. Using the metrics and criteria we decided upon, I was able to discern whether or not BookStack is the application we were looking for. I have come to the conclusion that it is not the alternative of choice for this project, but it does boast impressive features that can be used to essentially create digital books that mimic the style and organization of a printed book.

Not only did this research provide value to my group’s final project, it also added value to my education. The research and discovery of the history behind OERs and their impact on students is of great interest. As a librarian, I am able to utilize this newfound knowledge in my current profession. Librarians are thought to be the ultimate knowledge keepers, and as libraries are moving towards the technologic and the digital, so too must our resources. It is important to stay abreast of educational trends to better help my students. Additionally, this research has given me a better understanding of advanced web development and its applications. I hope to take this knowledge with me to the real world of information technology and utilize it in my future endeavors.

