# Recommendations

**First set of criteria**. Based on certain criteria and metrics determined by my team, I have been able to view BookStack through the lens of our proposed technology plan. The first criteria against which I have measured BookStack is that of cost: this is a free application, meaning there will be no expense to create, maintain, and distribute this platform to students in this course. Ease of use is the next criteria measured, and BookStack excels with flying colors. This platform has a very simple interface that is easily manipulated, utilizing a What You See Is What You Get page editor that allows creators to make changes easily, as proficiency in HTML, CSS, or any other coding language is not required.

**Second set of criteria**. Next is the amount of features, and BookStack boasts many. Among them are a strong search engine, its potential for configuration, its multi-linguistics, and its integrated authentication. Such features speak to the viability of BookStack as a textbook alternative in this course. Scalability was also considered, and BookStack can be changed and modified as the creators of the book see fit, meaning the instructor of the course can add new chapters and update pages themselves whenever they wish to do so. The potential for collaboration is the last important metric measured, and BookStack does in fact allow users to collaborate in the creation of books, chapters, and pages as long as they are authorized to do so by the creators of the book.

**Conclusion**. Ultimately, BookStack is a viable option and could potentially replace the current outdated textbook in our Advanced Web Development course. However, despite these great features, BookStack will remain merely an option and not the final recommendation.

